Infocom-type Games


10lndns_z5

1-2-3_z5
     Title: 1,2,3..
     Author: Chris Mudd
     Horror adventure where you are a serial killer.

905_z5
     Title: 9:05
     Author:  Adam Cadre
     Slice of life

abent_z5
     Title: Abenteur
     Author: William Crowther, Don Woods, Graham Nelson, and Toni Arnold
     Classic “Adventure” game in German.

acid_z5
     Title: Acid Whiplash
     Author: Ryan Stevens and Cody Sandier
     Surreal adventure game

acorncourt_z5
     Title: The Acorn Court
     Author: Todd S. Murchison
     A small, one-location game in which you must escape from a court. The game shows Inform's capability of handling multiple equal objects.

Advent_z5
     Title: Adventure
     Author: William Crowther and Donald Woods
     The original Adventure game from 1978.

Adventureland_z5
     Title: Adventure Land
     Author: Scott Adams
     Wander through an enchanted realm and try to uncover the 13 lost treasures. There are wild animals and magical beings to reckon with as well as many other perils and mysteries.  (1978)

adverbum_z5
     Title: Ad Verbum
     Author: Nick Montfort
     "With the cantankerous Wizard of Wordplay evicted from his mansion, the worthless plot can now be redeveloped. The city regulations declare, however, that the rip-down job can't proceed until all the items within had been removed.”

ADVLAND_Z5
     Title: Adventureland
     Author: Scott Adams

ADVSAMP_Z5
     Title: Adventureland (Sample)
     Author: Scott Adams

agb_z5
     Title: A Good Breakfast
     Author: Stuart Adair
     You are longing for a good breakfast, but where do you get the ingredients from? 

Aisle_z5
     Title: Aisle
     Author: Sam Barlow
     "Late Thursday night. You've had a hard day and the last thing you need is this: shopping. Luckily, the place is pretty empty and you're progressing rapidly. On to the next aisle…”

AKYRZ_Z5
     Title: The Wizard of Akyrz
     Author: Brian Howarth and Cliff J. Ogden
     Twice defeated by a mere mortal it has taken the evil wizard some time to recover his powers. Now he forms a new plan to trap and utterly destroy the earthly being that dares to thwart him. 

Alpha_z5
     Title: Journey to Alpha Centauri (In Real Time)
     Author: Julian Fleetwood
     If you keep it on your computer for three thousand years, you'll be rewarded by a message saying, "Welcome to Alpha Centauri. Now go home." 

amnos01_z5
     Title: Castle Amnos
     Author: John Evans
     
annoy_z5
     Title: Annoyotron
     Author: Ben Parrish
     "The Most Annoying Game of All Time"

ARROW1_Z5
     Title: Arrow of Death Part 1
     Author: Brian Howarth
     "Although restored to its rightful place in the throne room over 5 years ago the Golden Baton which usually shines brighter than normal gold has suddenly become tarnished, at the same time gloom and despair settles over the whole kingdom. Find the source of this evil influence before it is too late.” (1981)

ARROW2_Z5
     Title: Arrow of Death Part 2
     Author: Brian Howarth
     “Having successfully completed Arrow of Death Part 1, you now have the components to make a magical arrow with which you will be able to destroy Zerdon, the evil accomplice of the Wizard Akyrz, the real mastermind behind the evil that has befallen the Golden Baton.” (1981)

asendent_z5
     Title: Asendent
     Author: Nate Cull and Doug Jones
     Surreal/Joke

atrox_z5
     Title: Cattus Atrox
     Author: David Cornelson
     Horror

AtWork_z5
     Title: Danger! Adventurer at Work!
     Author: Simon Avery
     Slice of life

AVENTURA_Z5
     Title: Adventure
     Author: William Crowther and Donald Woods
     The original Adventure game from 1978 in Spanish.

awaken_z5
     Title: The Awakening
     Author: Dennis Matheson
     "You remember darkness. And the cold. Cold and darkness. And silence. Those memories are all that you have. That, and a feeling that something you never knew you possessed has been lost. Suddenly, oblivion is split by a blinding light and a crash of sound. You awaken to the roar of a storm and a deluge of rain and mud. The day goes downhill from there ..." 

awitl_z5
     Title: A Week in the Life
     Author: Neil James Brown
     A game that simulates a week in life, based on the author's personal experiences. 

b2demo_z5
     Title: Pick Up The Phone Booth And Die 2
     Author: Rob Noyes
     Same phone booth, different problem... this one will not be so easily destroyed. This is a demo version of "Pick up the Phone Booth and Die part 2." 

Balances_z5
     Title: Balances
     Author: Graham Nelson
     "A homage to Infocom's Enchanter Trilogy, at the same time showing some of the things that Inform is capable of doing." 

BALT_Z5
     Title: Baltimore:24
     Author: Howard A. Sherman
     "A game based on the author's experience with a similar problem, your task in Baltimore:24 is to replace a router destroyed by a thunderstorm."

banana_z5
     Title: Pass the Banana
     Author:  Admiral Jota
     Joke / Surreal

bap_z5
     Title: Being Andrew Plotkin
     Author:  J. Robinson Wheeler
     Screen/Satire

BATON_Z5
     Title: The Golden Baton
     Author: Brian Howarth
     “Your mission is to recover the Golden Baton, a priceless artefact that holds within it a kind of life force that maintains the equilibrium between good and evil. Stolen from the Palace of King Ferrenuil, the kingdom is already beginning to feel the effects of drought and pestilence.” (1981)

BBANZAI_Z5
     Title: The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai
     Author: Scott Adams and Phillip Case
     “Buckaroo Banzai, a neurosurgeon, rock star and more, must try to fix a jet car that can drive him into the 8th dimension.” (1985)

bear_z5
     Title: A Bear's Night Out
     Author: David Dyte
     "Tomorrow is the big Teddy Bear party, and you must definitely not let your owner forget about it..."

bearg_z5
     Title: A Bear's Night Out
     Author: David Dyte
     Children's/Fantasy

bedlam_z5
     Title: Bedlam
     Author: Michael Zey
     "All you want to do is to watch the boxing match tonight, but your wife and kids are doing their best to hinder you. And that is just the beginning... This is a preview of the game "Bedlam.""

bestman_z5
     Title: The Best Man
     Author: Rob Menke

bigmama_z5
     Title: The Big Mama
     Author: Brendan Barnwell
     "Three or four sailboats cruise lazily in the glow of the setting sun, which casts a poetic shimmer across the swells. In the distance, about 15 km offshore, you can discern the dim, hunched shapes of the oil platforms. The breeze is straight out of some beach-blanket B-movie: salty, soft, and refreshing."

bj_z5
     Title: Blow Job Drifter
     Author: Big Al
     Pornographic

blair_z5
     Title: Tales From The College Presents A Breath Of Fresh Blair
     Author: Jesse Burneko
     "An interactive in-joke." War refugees have it bad, but not when compared with college-dorm residents. How can you get the laundry done? Soon to be a Pink Floyd concept concert."

bluemen_z5
     Title: Little Blue Men
     Author:  Michael S. Gentry
     This game is a joke. This game is a warning. This game is a satire. This game is inspired in equal parts by Vaclav Havel's "The Memorandum" and Hunter S. Thompson's "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas". This game is a big, stupid shaggy dog story. 

bomber_z5
     Title: The Mad Bomber
     Author: Neil James Brown
     A recreation of the old "Bombers" game, where you have to bomb a city into ashes to be able to land safely. 

booth_z5
     Title: Pick Up The Phone Booth And Die
     Author: Rob Noyes
     A very short game. Whatever you do, do not pick up the phone booth; well, you can guess from the title what happens if you do. 

break-in_z5
     Title: Break-In
     Author: Jon Ingold
     Espionage/Fantasy/Mystery/Surreal/Satire

bse_z5
     Title: BSE, An Interactive Epidemic
     Author: Chris Smith

btd2_z5
     Title: Beat the Devil
     Author: Robert M. Camisa
     Satire/Afterlife

bunny_z5
     Title: The Night of the Vampire Bunnies
     Author: Jason Dyer
     Can you save your town from the curse of the terrible vampire bunny? 

BUSTED_Z5
     Title: Busted!
     Author: Jon Drukman and Derek Pizzuto
     "Returning from classes, you find a message from your friend Keith on your answering machine. He has been "busted" by the cops; and if you aren't careful, you will be, too..."

calliope_z5
     Title: Calliope
     Author: Jason McIntosh
     Slice of life

candy_z5
     Title: Candy
     Author: Ryan Stevens
     "You are playing a small child dropped off at the house of its aunt, on a desperate quest for candies. This is a beta version of "Candy."

CARS2_Z5
     Title: ASCII Cars!!
     Author: Jorge Arroyo
     "This is a very simple simulation of a car racing around a track done with inform6. You'll need an interpreter of the z-code that supports real-time key reading and action."

CARS3_Z5

cask_z5
     Title: Cask
     Author: Harry M. Hardjono
     "The author's first stab at interactive fiction. A very buggy game that consists mainly of obscure puzzles, with no story at all."

CAVERNS_Z5
     Title: Caverns of Chaos
     Author: Paul Martinez and Alison Castro
     Fantasy

change_z5
     Title: For a Change
     Author: Dan Schmidt
     "The sun has gone. It must be brought. You have a rock." 

cheater_z5
     Title: Cheater
     Author: Wesley Osam
     "A small game; the only way to win is to literally cheat. Might be difficult for players who aren't familiar with the Inform language debugging verbs." 

chico_z5
     Title: Chico and I Ran
     Author: J. D. Berry
     Screen / Satire

chix_z5
     Title: Chicks Dig Jerks
     Author: Robb Sherwin

cia_z5
     Title: CIA Adventure
     Author: Hugh Lampert
     "As this game is ported directly from the TRS-80, it is very uncomfortable to play. Your mission is to find a ruby used in a laser projector that has been stolen by a spy ring named CHAOS."

CIRCUS_Z5

city_z5
     Title: The City
     Author: Sam Barlow
     "An interactive short experience." 

claw_z5
     Title: Wearing the Claw
     Author: Paul O'Brian
     A traditional fantasy quest in which you and your village have been cursed with a slow transformation into various animals. The only way to stop the curse is to retrieve the Pendant of Elinor from the mysterious island of the Goergs. 

CokeIsIt_z5
     Title: Coke Is It!
     Authors: Lucian P. Smith, Adam Thornton, J. Robinson Wheeler, Michael Fessler, Dan Shiovitz, and David Dyte
     "Ahhhh! Another can of refreshing Coca-Cola! You sigh in contentment as you partake of the sweet carbonated beverage, so recently purchased. But what's this? The dispenser light is still on! You can select another! You pause, though. The labels seem to be different than they were before,..." 

comp00tr_z5

Comp96_z5
     Title: CompXX
     Author: Lucian P. Smith

congrats_z5
     Title: Congratulations!
     Author: Frederick Hirsch
     "A short game in which you must take care of your newborn baby."

COUNT_Z5
     Title: The Count
     Author: Scott Adams
     "It begins when you awake in a large brass bed in a castle somewhere in Transylvania. Who are you, what are you doing here and WHY did the postman deliver a bottle of blood? 

Cove_z5
     Title: The Cove
     Author: Kathleen M. Fischer
     Romance/Slice of life

Crobe_z5
     Title: Crobe
     Author: Jonathan Partington
     Cave crawl

CtDoom_z5
     Title: Countdown to Doom
     Author: Peter D. Killworth

curses_z5
     Title: Curses!
     Author: Graham Nelson
     Haunted House/Historical/Travel/Time Travel

death_z5
     Title: Death to my Enemies
     Author: John Blask
     An Interactive Tale of Revenge 

deephome_z5
     Title: Deephome: A Telleen Adventure
     Author: Joshua Wise
     Cave crawl/Horror

dejavu_z3
     Title: Deja Vu
     Author: Graham Nelson
     Zorkian

Delusns_z5
     Title: Delusions
     Author: C. E. Forman
     "A trip into virtual reality: all begins with debugging a VR system, but then things get out of hand. Who is Morrodox, what has he to do with your colleagues, and what is going on?" 

detective_z5
     Title: Detective
     Author: Matt Barringer
     "Often imitated, never equaled, an unvarnished port of Barringer's "Detective"

dilly_z5
     Title: Trapped in a One-Room Dilly
     Author: Laura Knauth
     A one-room game. It's nicely appointed, but... 

dinner_z5
     Title: Dinner with Andre
     Author: Liza Daly
     "A date by candlelight in a fine restaurant. Should be a perfect evening."

djinni_z5
     Title: The Djinni Chronicles
     Author: J. D. Berry
     Fantasy

dogslife_z5
     Title: It's a Dog's Life
     Author: Mr. Wigglebutt
     “You have been chosen as the winner of a fully trained Australian Cattle Dog (you lucky devil). What adventures lie in store?”

doll_z5
     Title: The Zuni Doll
     Author: Jesse Burneko
     The small African Zuni Doll seemed a nice addition to your collection of oddities. Myths say it captures the spirit of an African Tribesman who died while committing a cowardly act. To regain honour, he must kill 25 humans. However, all is safe as long as the doll bears its golden Talisman. Later that night, you awake just as your cat drops something tiny, something golden in your lap...

dumont_z5
     Title: Dr. Dumont's Wild P.A.R.T.I.
     Author: Muffy Berlyn and Michael Berlyn
     "Failing physics--again--would be traumatic enough. But now, you're trapped inside a Particle Accelerator and Reality Translation Integrator, the product of mad genius meeting mixed metaphors. Originally designed to help the human mind understand particle physics, the sub-atomic world inside is a strange blend of mysticism and science, of Zen contemplation and Marx Brothers movies. Dr. Gregory Dumont has sucked you into his P.A.R.T.I., but it's no picnic in there. This is a new version of the original, ported to Inform and much expanded - twice the size of the original." 

edifice_z5
     Title: The Edifice
     Author: Lucian P. Smith
     Historical/Science Fiction

eliza_z5
     Title: Eliza
     Author: Anonymous
     Adapted for the IBM PC by Patricia Danielson and Paul Hashfield, ported to Inform by Ricardo Dague 

enchaninv_z5

enlighte_z5
     Title: Enlightenment
     Author: Taro Ogawa
     Cave crawl/Zorkian

enlisted_z5
     Title: Enlisted
     Author: G.F. Berry
     Space Exploration

evil_z5
     Title: The Evil Sorcerer
     Author: Gren Remoz
     Fantasy

f209_z5
     Title: Apartment 209
     Author: Ben Parrish
     Interactive Pigsty

fable_z5
     Title: A Fable
     Author: Stan Heller
     Surreal

FEASIBIL_Z5

fifteen_z5
     Title: Fifteen
     Author: Ricardo Dague
     You stand in the kitchen. Sigh! Yet another darn treasure hunt game! 

forms_z5
     Title: Of Forms Unknown
     Author: Chris Markwyn
     A game that starts off in a college room, soon to move on to other, stranger places. This game was influenced by Andrew Plotkin's "So Far." 

fotopia_z5
     Title: Photopia (Spanish Version)
     Author:  Adam Cadre
     Slice of life

freefall_z5
     Title: Tetris
     Author: Alexey Pajitnov
     Tetris for the Z-machine, an original "fun" entry for the 1995 IF Competition. Needs an interpreter capable of timed events to work properly. 

friday_z5
     Title: Friday Afternoon
     Author: Mischa Schweitzer
     Trapped in the MicroSun offices, you have just one wish: get out of there by six, to meet your date, and prove that you're not a nerd. 

Frobozzi_z5
     Title: Encyclopedia Frobozzica
     Author: Digby McWiggle and Nino Ruffini
     "The famous Encyclopedia, rendered as an exercise in Inform menus."

frozen_z5
     Title: Frozen
     Author: Jeremy Farnham
     You're working late at the computer lab in an attempt to finish the assignment which is due in very shortly. Emerging from a daydream you carelessly lapsed into, you are surprised to find that the whole world around you has frozen in time... 

FUNHOUSE_Z5

Fyleet_z5
     Title: Fyleet
     Author: Jonathan Partington
     Fantasy

GerbilRiot_z5
     Title: Gerbil Riot of '67
     Author: Simon Avery
     "Arguably the daftest, most stupidly silly text adventure ever. Converted with tender loving care from the 8-bit original."

GHOSTWN_Z5

godot_z5
     Title: Looking for Godot
     Author: Patrick Shaughnessy
     Highest time to return that copy of "Waiting for Godot" to the library. But where did you put it? 

gotid_z5
     Title: Got ID?
     Author: Marc Valhara
     Humor

guess_z5
     Title: Guess the Verb!
     Author: Leonard Richardson
     "Now you too can GUESS THE VERB for fun and prizes! Read evocative and amusing room descriptions while manipulating interesting objects! Interact with the simulated motives and desires of quirky NPCs! No thesaurus required!"

guestret_z5
     Title: Life on Gue Street
     Author: Chris Charla
     Spoof of Life on Beal Street, by Ian Finley
     Makes reference to Zork I, by Marc Blank and Dave Lebling

Gumshoe_z5
     Title: Gumeshoe
     Author: Mike Oliphant
     As the owner of a debt-ridden detective agency in the 1920's, you have to find some way of keeping afloat. The case involving suspected infidelity should help with the finances, though... 

GVOYAGE_Z5

halo_z5
     Title: Halothane
     Author: Ravi Rajkumar
     "You're having a hard enough time getting your second novel to work; how could it ever be possible that you, Harold Banks - world's most unsuccessful published author - could actually be sent on a quest to - er - save the world? Anyway, all you want to do right now is sleep...."

happy_z5
     Title: Happy Ever After
     Author: Robert M. Camisa
     "You still can't quite believe that Gwyneth dumped you. Not after all you went through. Hopefully sepnding a couple of days babysitting Uncle Steve's museum will at least make a start on mending your heartache..."

HELL_Z5
     Title: Welcome to Hell
     Author: Kevin Norton and Brandon Meyers
     Go to hell. Become a demon. Show them how it's done. 

hhgginv_z5

hints_z5

home_z5
     Title: Coming Home
     Author: Andrew Katz

house_z5
     Title: Aunt Nancy's House
     Author: Nate Schwartzman
      "This is an interactive tour of the author's aunt's soon-to-be former home."

hrs_z5
     Title: Human Resources Stories
     Author: Harry M. Hardjono
     A state-of-the-art job interview for a position as computer programmer. 
     
HULK_Z5

huntdark_z5
     Title: Hunter, in Darkness
     Author: Andrew Plotkin
     Adapted from “Hunt the Wumpus”

I-0_z5
     Title: Interstate Zero
     Author: Anonymous
     Stranded on Interstate Zero after your car broke down, you are miles away from the last sign of civilization. It's twenty minutes to noon and the temperature is well over 120°F. It's beginning to look like you won't make it to your family's Thanksgiving dinner... 


Informat_z5
     Title: Informatory
     Author: William J. Shlaer
     You feel like weeping; you might as well have stayed by the slit in the stream bed and waited for plate tectonics to widen it. You are in front of that all too familiar white house again! Replay the beginnings of Adventure/Zork, with a few twists... 

inhumane_z5
     Title: Inhumane
     Author: Andrew Plotkin
     A parody of Infocom's Infidel, written when the author was fifteen, then converted to Inform. To collect a treasure, you must show an ancient guardian how awful an adventurer you are. 

INTRUDER_Z5
     Title: Intruder
     Author: Volker Lanz
     In Intruder, you take the role of an unsuccessful and highly indebted private eye, or, in one word, a loser. And what makes things even worse, your bank manager threatens to distrain upon you if you don't pay at least a part of your debts within a few weeks time. Then, a mysterious stranger turns up in your office, offering you a case. A job in France, by the sea, a burglar's job, a job you simply can't reject. Because if you do, you'll indeed lose everything.      

jacks_z5
     Title: Jacks or Better to Murder, Aces to Win
     Author: J. D. Berry
     Espionage

jewel_z5
     Title: The Jewel of Knowledge
     Author: Francesco Bova
     "A somewhat traditional cave crawl." Possession of the long-lost Jewel of Knowledge is said to bring fame, wealth, power, and of course knowledge, but you'll have to beat the extraordinarily high mortality rate for adventurers. And the protectors of the Jewel, the ancient dragons of the sixth layer. 

Jigsaw_Footnotes_z5
     Title: Jigsaw
     Author: Graham Nelson
     New Year's Eve, 1999, a quarter to midnight and where else to be but Century Park! Fireworks cascade across the sky, your stomach rumbles uneasily, music and lasers howl across the parkland... Not exactly your ideal party (especially as that rather attractive stranger in black has slipped back into the crowds) - but cheer up, you won't live to see the next. 

Jigsaw_Game_z5
     Title: Jigsaw
     Author: Graham Nelson
     New Year's Eve, 1999, a quarter to midnight and where else to be but Century Park! Fireworks cascade across the sky, your stomach rumbles uneasily, music and lasers howl across the parkland... Not exactly your ideal party (especially as that rather attractive stranger in black has slipped back into the crowds) - but cheer up, you won't live to see the next.

karn_z5
     Title: Return to Karn
     Author: Patrick Wigfull
     A Doctor Who adventure. Sequel to a televised adventure featuring the fourth Doctor and one of his old enemies. You have been instructed by the Time Lords to retrieve the brain of Morbius; however, you're not the only recent visitor to the planet Karn. 

kirby_z5

kitty_z5
     Title: Stupid Kittens
     Author: Marc Valhara
     "You are standing in Karen's room.
     >POOP ON COMPUTER
     Woo, bad kitten!"

kooku_z5
     Title: Kook U
     Author: Anonymous
     Collegiate

lambs_z5
     Title: Silence of the Lambs
     Author: Anonymous
     Humor

LDoDoom_z5
     Title: Last Days of Doom
     Author: Peter D. Killworth
     Science Fiction/Time Travel

legacy_z5
     Title: The Family Legacy
     Author: Marnie Parker
     "You are to inherit $10 million from your uncle Arnold, but only if you can find the lost family heirloom in the course of 48 hours. But beware - the mansion is haunted. Or is it?" 

lest_z5
     Title: Madame L'Estrange and the Troubled Spirit
     Author: Ian Ball and Marcus Young
     For Madame L'Estrange, contacts with beings from the ghost world are everyday routine. This case, however, is not. Did Dr. Taverner really kill himself? If not, who did it? And what about that beast? 

letters_z5
     Title: Letters from Home
     Author: Roger Firth
     "Centuries of ancestry, decades of memories, years of decline; now, barely two hours in which to reflect on the glorious past, that bygone golden age when nostalgia really meant something... "

lgopinv_z5

library_z5
     Title: All Quiet on the Library Front
     Author: Michael S. Phillips
     As a student with an IF assignment looming, you need to get a biography out of the library - however, it is a very rare book, and surely you won't be allowed to take it with you... 

life_z5
     Title: Life or Death
     Author: David S. Glasser
     A freely-admitted abuse of the Z-machine; you are in a single featureless room with a gameboard on which you can play Conway's Game of Life (the one with multiplying cells, not the one where pegs ride around in little plastic cars). Curiously, it still uses the standard IF style, where you have to use the verb "toggle" to turn cells on and off individually, making setting up complex board configurations a real chore.

limp_z5
     Title: Limp
     Author: Ryan Stevens
     It's been seventeen months since your last erection. Highest time to do something about it. 

lists_z5
     Title: Lists and Lists
     Author: Andrew Plotkin 
     A tutorial in which a genie teaches you the basics of a simplified version of LISP. 

lomalow_z5
     Title: Lomalow
     Author: Brendan Barnwell
     "This game has one puzzle, and the solution to this is given immediately as the game begins. It's about loss, sadness, love, mystery, supernatural beings, and moving to a higher plane of existence. It is all about reading what comes up on the screen, and the only "puzzle" is to figure out how to access and read all that text."

loose_z5
     Title: Mother Loose
     Author: Irene Callaci
     Literary/Children's

lost_z5
     Title: The Lost Spellmaker
     Author: Neil James Brown
     Spells are in short supply, and spellmakers are disappearing one by one. So your boss T sends you on a mission to find the famous Drew Tungshinach so that he may entertain the community further with his spells. 

ludite_z5

lurkinginv_z5

magic-toyshop_z5
     Title: The Magic Toyshop
     Author: Gareth Rees
     A one-location game in which you play a series of puzzles against a shopkeeper in order to get a present.

mary_z5
     Title: Revenger
     Author: Robb Sherwin
     "Jalen McKeon had it all figured out. Post-graduate work in the lovely desert over work he could attend to with his eyes closed. Another eleven months and voila! Another degree for this professional student. All that really stood in his way were five aged geezers and a woman who was a bit of a screamer..."

mask_z5
     Title: Masquerade
     Author: Kathleen M. Fischer
     "You walk purposefully down the sidewalk, looking neither left nor right. You don't need to look; you can tell you are being watched from whispers overheard as you pass by.
"Poor Amelia..." you hear somebody say. Poor Amelia, indeed. You hurry on, not caring to hear any more.
Reaching the Lucky Strike, you force yourself to climb the steps and push open the doors, stopping just inside to let your eyes adjust to dim light."
masque_z5

me_z5
     Title: Music Education
     Author: Bill Linney
     "A typical day in the life of a college music student." 

Mercy_z5
     Title: Mercy
     Author: Chris Klimas
     You see, when the scientists had thought that the only smallpox around was in a very very small box kept securely closed, they were wrong. When you come into the clinic today, seven people have already died. A nurse is missing. He's probably gone, too. You think that his name was Simon. You are a doctor at Mercy Hospital, euthanizing people that suffer from smallpox. Long ago, you have stopped caring, about anything. Or have you? 

metamorp_z5
     Title: Metamorphoses
     Author: Emily Short
     You wake to stillness. The hammering, banging, and shouting that kept you awake half the night are gone. The air is cold, and something smells burnt. Your master's experiments must be finished, but with what result? 

mhpquest_z5
     Title: Quest for the Magic Healing Plant
     Author: Adam G. Crutchlow
     Find the magic plant that can heal your daughter - before it's too late! 

mimesis_z5
     Title: Sins Against Mimesis
     Author: Adam Thornton 
     Your lover Black left, and your days are full of loneliness. Your progress in finding him, however, is blocked by none other than the Devil himself; and to get rid of him, you must commit the seven deadly sins. And that is just the beginning... 

mindelec_z5
     Title: The Mind Electric
     Author: Jason Dyer
     Set in an unusual cyber/virtual reality background, you play a disembodied consciousness trapped in an electron prison of the mind. 

minster_z5
     Title: Christminster
     Author: Gareth Rees
     "When your brother Malcolm sends you a telegram inviting you to visit him at Biblioll College in the ancient university town of Christminster, you imagine that the mysterious `discovery' he alludes to is nothing more than some esoteric bit of chemistry, and that you'll have a pleasant day out in beautiful surroundings. But when you get to Christminster, nothing is as you expect. Where has Malcolm vanished to? What are the unpleasant Doctor Jarboe and the positively repulsive Professor Bungay up to? And what do long-forgotten alchemical treatises have to do with the modern day?" 

mst3k1_z5
mst3k1_2_z5
     Title: Mystery Science Theater 3000 Presents "Detective"
     Author: C. E. Forman, Graeme Cree, and Stuart Moore
     "A rewrite of Matt Barringer's incredibly bad game "Detective", this game was ported to Inform and subjected to treatment with Mystery Science Theater 3000 sarcasm. This version is the Silver Screen edition which includes some highly amusing stuff about the game." 

mst3k2_z5
     Title: Mystery Science Theater 3000 Presents "A Fable"
     Author: Graeme Cree
     "A character assassination of an apparently not-very-good AGT game in the style of Mystery Science Theatre 3000." 

muse_z5

my_angel_z5
     Title: My Angel
     Author: Jon Ingold
     "I wake peacefully, and already she is there."

never_z5
     Title: Nevermore
     Author: Nate Cull
     "A short tale of mystery and madness inspired by Poe's "The Raven"."

newday_z5
     Title: A New Day
     Author: Jonathan Fry
     For some reason, the author of this game died while writing it, and so you're stuck in an unfinished room. The author's creation, Winston, asks you to find out what happened. Can you finish an unfinished game full of bugs? 

night_z5
     Title: Night at the Computer Center
     Author: bonni mierzejewska
     Someone has run off with one of the university's printers, and you, as a computer lab technician, must retrieve it if you want to keep your job. 

ninepts_z5
     Title: Nine Points
     Author: Robert Janelle and Brad O'Donnell
     A very simple treasure-hunting game, aimed at being a gentle introduction to the world of Interactive Fiction.

njag2_z5

oad_z5
     Title: Only After Dark
     Author: Gunther Schmidl
     ""HERE BE DRAGONS" is what the rutter said, but the small island turned out to be free of those animals after all. Instead, you landed near a tiny village full of friendly natives.
Aaah, shore leave! You can't remember when the last time was you could relax, take a night off and stroll through town to pick up a girl or two."

ODIEUS_Z5
     Title: Odieus's Quest for the Magic Flingshot
     Author: Anonymous
     Help Odieus in his search for the magic flingshot to get rid of his arch-enemy Blackwing, son of Blackfeather. This game was ported from AGT and is still a beta test copy. 

ODYSSEY_Z5

outsided_z5
     Title: Outsided
     Author: Chad Elliott
     "You are about to have the worst day of your life..."

pad_z5

paint_z5
     Title: Paint and Corners
     Author: L. Ross Raszewski
     You work against the computer in painting a billboard. You are paid for the amount of blue paint you put down, but be careful not to paint over any existing paint! 

paperchase_z5
     Title: The Paper Chase
     Author: Chris Skapura
     You want your college qualification - but red tape and unhelpful, bureaucratic officials block your progress...

paranoia_z5

Peacock_z5
     Title: Not Made With Hands
     Author: Emily Short
     Travel

pentari_z5
     Title: Pentari
     Author: Howard A. Sherman
     You are a company commander on weekend leave with your men in sunny Bostwin in the Kingdom of Pentari. With that big mission looming, what to do for entertainment? 

permagic_z5
     Title: Perilous Magic
     Author: David Fillmore
     "A really short interactive comic tragedy." Humourously based on Infocom's Enchanter trilogy, your goal is to run off a newly completed report in triplicate. But you'll need the appropriate spell scrolls... 

PERSEUS_Z5

phlegm_z5
     Title: Phlegm
     Author: Jason Dyer
     You've found it at last - the chest containing the Treasure of Phlegm. Now, all you need to do is get it down from the tree. A cannon could help, if you can find the tools necessary to fire it... 

photobw_z5
photopia_z5
     Title: Photopia
     Author: Adam Cadre

piece_v3_z5
     Title: Piece of Mind
     Author: Giles Boutel
     Piece of Mind is a short, humorous work which uses the first person "puppet" concept from Scott Adams and other early games and examines the possible causes and consequences of being so controlled by the player. On the way to insight into the protagonist's nature the player will come across some parody (X-Files, cheesy SF), some poetry (real and instant), and perhaps even the odd moral dilemma.

pintown_z5
     Title: Pintown
     Author: Stefan Blixt
     As you are leaving your home, you must return the keys to your small home to the janitor. First, however, you must transform yourself into a human being again, and clean up a bit. 

PIRATE_Z5

pizza_z5
     Title: Phred Phontious and the Quest for Pizza
     Author: Michael Zey
     The Royal Court Jester wants his pizza, and he wants it quickly. So his chef, Chet, sends you out to get all the necessary items. Along the way, you discover there just might be something going on...

planetinv_z5

ppocket_z5

PRINCESS_Z5
     Title: The Ice Princess
     Author: Rüdiger Hanke
     While watching the skaters on Christmas Eve, you notice a beautiful woman. As you try to follow her, she leaves the ice rink, disappearing towards a forest... This is a demo of "The Ice Princess." 

Probing_z5
     Title: Offensive Probing
     Author: Ben Croshaw
     In Offensive Probing, you play Martin McSondheim, a post-graduate ensign of the Space Federation who, due to lack of openings, finds himself trying to cling onto a dirty little life on one of the downmarket moons, Triton. In the introduction, Martin is stationed on board the SFS Connery, in which he embarks upon the most incredible adventure of his life. 

prodly_z5
     Title: Prodly the Puffin
     Author: Jim Crawford and Craig Timpany
     Cartoon/Satire/Surreal

promoted_z5
     Title: Promoted
     Author: Mike DeSanto and Johannes Steingraeber
     Satire/Science Fiction

PULSAR7_Z5

punkpnts_z5
     Title: Punk Points
     Author:  Jim Munroe
     "It's the first day of high school and you've decided to give yourself a mohawk. Now you've gotta stand up to teachers, impress peers and make a name for yourself until you've earned enough Punk Points to escape the suburbs."

purple_z5
     Title: Purple
     Author: Stefan Blixt
     Another Earth, another time. War. Disaster. Death. Air travel. 

PYRAMID_Z5

Ralph_z5
     Title: Ralph
     Author: Miron Schmidt
     In this short excourse you play a dog. It doesn't matter what race, though it's probably a male dog (hence the name 'Ralph'). What matters is that you know you have buried a bone last year, which you now have to reacquire. The problem is, being a rather old dog, about eight to nine years old, your memory isn't what it used to be. The same goes for your nose, so you can't smell the bone through the earth. It seems you're on your very own.

rameses_z5
     Title: Rameses
     Author:  Stephen Bond
     
RANS_z5
     Title: RANS: An Interworld Progress
     Author: Bob Reeves
     A burnt-out fantasy writer is transported into his own imaginary kingdom to learn a few lessons about himself and be confronted with a few questions.

reflect_z5
     Title: Symetry
     Author: Ryan Stevens
     This new mirror you bought really is something. But in the night, it has a life of it's own... 

Relief_z5
     Title: The Hunt for Relief
     Author: Christian Gaertner

research_z5
     Title: Research Dig
     Author: Chris Armitage
     An apparently straight-forward archeological research dig at an old English churchyard leads to something not quite the norm... 

residnt2_z5
     Title: The Resident
     Author: Mike DeSanto
     This is a port of a REXX-Adventure, copying the menu-based OS/2 user interface. After being assaulted and cut in half, you are kept alive on the WEB by a person called Ringer. He offers you a deal: you perform some tasks for him, and he will fit your body with cybernetics. You need to gain entry to GMSC if you ever want your body back... 

RET2PIRT_Z5

reverb_z5
     Title: Reverberations
     Author: Russell Glasser
     Surely it is too much to expect for you, a mere pizza delivery boy and surfing fanatic, to foil the attempted escape of a notorious criminal from custody, avoid numerous murder attempts, find the gang the criminal belongs to and start up a romance with an attractive attourney? 

reverzi_z5
     Title: Reverzi
     Author: John Menichelli

ritual_z5
     Title: Ritual of Purification
     Author: Jarek Sobolewski
     Tha' art a magician, embarked on an astral projection. Danger. Romance, perhaps. Learning, maybe... 

robots_z5
     Title: Robots - Another abuse of the Z-machine
     Author: Torbjörn Andersson
     A Z-machine version of the old "Daleks" game (also known as "Zombies"). Lack of hints make this game a very hard one to play. 

rogue_z5
     Title: zRogue
     Author: Gevan Dutton
     The Z-machine port of "Rogue," also known as "Nethack." The object of this text role-playing game is to find the Amulet of Yendor, fighting hundreds of monsters in the quest. 

RtDoom_z5
     Title: Return to Doom
     Author: Peter D. Killworth

SameGame_z5
     Title: Same Game
     Author: Kevin Bracey
     Use cursor keys or the mouse to select a ball. Remove that ball and its matching neighbours by pressing Enter. Balls can only be removed if two or more neighbours match. The more balls that are removed each turn, the higher the score.
SameGame is an extreme stress test of your interpreter's Standard compliance; it uses file access, the mouse, font 3, colour, the Unicode extension table and print_unicode, together with the rare opcodes print_table and log_shift, just to check your interpreter author is awake.

samhain_z5
     Title: Samhain
     Author: Marc Valhara
     
Sangraal_z5
     Title: Quest for the Sangraal
     Author: Jonathan Partington
     Arthurian/Cave crawl/Satire/Surreal/Wordplay

SAVAGE1_Z5

SAVAGE2_Z5

School_z5
     Title: Inform School
     Author: William J. Shlaer
     Inform School is a "compiler" for Inf, a miniaturized version of Inform that operates within the adventure itself, allowing you to construct simple environments. It's intended to be used as a tool for learning Inform itself. While there are some programming exercises provided, the main idea is to familiarize the player with Inf commands to facilitate later learning Inform.

schooldays_z5
     Title: School Days
     Author: Andrew MacKinnon

SCRTMISS_Z5

shade_z5
     Title: Shade
     Author: Andrew Plotkin 
     "A one-room game set in your apartment." 

sherbet_z5
     Title: The Meteor, The Stone And A Long Glass Of Sherbet
     Author: Graham Nelson (as Angela M. Horns) 
     Another day wasted as guest of the Empress, a wretchedly long tour of the breath-taking Boreal Falls, conducted as ever by the Lady Amilia. As if she weren't bad enough, an honour guard of soldiers, their breast-plates red in the setting sun, march ahead of the procession and protect you from seeing anything unrehearsed. It's a dog's life being an Ambassador. 

shrapnel_z5
     Title: Shrapnel
     Author: Adam Cadre
     Horror/Surreal/Time Travel/Historical

Slackerx_z5
     Title: Slacker X
     Author: The Velvet Jester, Smoke Dog, and Wormy Jurmy
     You awake with a drug-induced amnesia, trying to find out who threw up on you and what the heck is going on, anyway. Mail the author with comments to receive the registration package that includes "Acid Trip." 

snafufun_z5
     Title: The Adventure
     Author: Chris Kerton
     Do not confuse this with Adventure. You'll be sorry. Boy is it bad. Set in the author's high school, this "game" lets you enter one-letter commands (!) to wander around, talk, and kill people, until you perform some pointlessly fatal action. Rude text, PC internal speaker music, no saved games, no way to win. If the author has any idea that it's still available to the public, he is probably highly embarassed about it.


softfood_z5
     Title: A Day for Soft Food
     Author: Tod Levi
     "Ever since the provider's sickness began, he's been all hisses and growls. Even the slightest misstep seems to annoy him. Perhaps that's why your bowl has held nothing but hard food lately. And not much of that." 

softporn_z5
     Title: Softporn Adventure
     Author: Chuck Benton
     The text adventure that became the first of Sierra's long-running "Leisure Suit Larry."

sorcinv_z5

SORCOCC_Z5

space_st_z5
spacest2_z5
     Title: Spacestation
     Author: David Ledgard
     Based on the example transcript that came with Infocom's Stationfall, with extensions and improvements, of course. 

spacez_z5
     Title: Space InvaderZ
     Author: L. Ross Raszewski
     A z-code implementation of the classic arcade game Space Invaders. 

spellbinv_z5

SPIDERMN_Z5

spirit_z5
     Title: Spiritwrak
     Author: D. S. Yu
     Set in the universe of Zork, this game starts off in a monastery. The evil Anabis fools Brother Joseph into releasing him from his prison. He shatters the Rod of the Ancients, and the only way to save the order is to retrieve all the pieces and even confront the Implementors themselves... 

spotlite_z5
      Title: In the Spotlight
      Author: John Byrd 
      A one-room game with one major puzzle. Tie two strings together. Simple? 

spring_z5
     Title: She's Got a Thing for a Spring
     Author: Brent VanFossen
     It's been a hectic year, and it's time to get away. He told you that, and you agreed. Now you're here, in a grove of aspen, and long for a good, long bath in the nearby hot spring. 

starrider_z5
     Title: Starrider
     Author: Maximilian Kalus

stationinv_z5

stiffmst_z5
     Title: Stiffy Makane: Mystery Science Theater 3000
     Author: Anonymous
     "A MiSTing of one of the worst IF games ever, your mission as Stiffy Makane is to... umm... (among others) "do" Public Pussy Pamela."

sutwin_z5
     Title: The Space Under the Window
     Author: Andrew Plotkin
     A new, experimental game that has no puzzles but uses only words that change your focus on things, thereby adapting the story.

sycamora_z5
     Title: Sycamora Tree
     Author: David Dyte
     A parody based on a Swedish company's attempt to start a commercial IF venture--their request for games, posted to the newsgroup rec.arts.int-fiction, stipulated, among other things that the game should have "at least 300 or more words at every long description such as GET KEY, OPEN DOOR." This is a tiny, very funny game fulfilling that requirement.

sylenius_z5
     Title: Sylenius Mysterium
     Author: C. E. Forman
     You are Sylenius Mysterium, video game player par excellence. At a mall, you discover a long-lost arcade game, and excitedly start to play. But nothing could have prepared you for what happens... 

tac_z5
     Title: Thorfinn's Realm
     Author: Robert Hall and Roy Main
     "Travel back in time, find all the treasure to join the Adventurer's Society."

Tangle_z5
     Title: Spider and Web
     Author: Andrew Plotkin
     A vacation in our lovely country! See the ethnic charms of the countryside, the historic grandeur of the capital city. Taste our traditional cuisine; smell the flowers of the Old Tree. And all without leaving your own armchair! But all is not as it seems... 

tdragon_z5
     Title: Town Dragon
     Author: David Cornelson 
     A dragon is terrorizing your home town, and the mayor is looking for volunteers to get rid of him. Fortunately, someone other than you becomes "volunteer." Unfortunately, it is still you who has to do the dirty work... 

tempest_z5
     Title: The Tempest
     Author: Graham Nelson and William Shakespeare
     You play Ariel in William Shakespeare's comedy The Tempest. The text and descriptions are lifted from the original works, i. e. in old English. 

theatre_z5
     Title: Theater
     Author: Brendon Wyber
     Your job as a real estate agent brings you into contact with many old buildings, but none are quite like the old theatre that has stood deserted for almost thirty years. After visiting it with some prospective buyers, you discover that you have left your pager behind. You quickly stop off there, on your way out for the evening, to pick it up. However, at night, you soon learn, the theatre's denizens are more than just rats and spiders. Now you find yourself trapped in a world of secrets and of shadows, while a century-old evil awakens to hatch her nefarious plans. In order to survive the horror and insanity, you must use all your wits and cunning, and, to escape, you must solve the dark secret of the THEATRE! 

TIMEMACH_Z5

tk1_z5
     Title: Time Killer #1: Claustrophobia
     Author: Sam Hulick
     This short game comprises of a few puzzles, pieced together to form some kind of continuity, but lacks any story. The author describes it as a test for creating challenging puzzles. 

tokyo_z5
Tokyo2_z5
     Title: Downtown Tokyo, Present Day
     Author: John Kean
     "In this game you actually play two people - one is the real you, sitting in the dark in a movie theatre, and the other is the hero of the film that you are watching. 

transfer_z5
     Title: Transfer
     Author: Tod Levi
     "The staff's jubilant anticipation of the first human transfer was now replaced with dread. Why had the Professor fallen ill so suddenly? And how callous of the Overseers to insist on proceeding without delay!"

trininv_z5

troll_z5
     Title: Zork: A Troll's-Eye View
     Author: Dylan O'Donnell
     Have you ever wondered how the life of a guard troll is? Find out in this game! 

tryst205_z5
     Title: Tryst of Fate
     Author: G. M. Zagurski
     Your last trip up the stairs before you can relax in a nice hot bath brings you into rather unfortunate contact with a toy car left carelessly on a stair, and your head connects with the wooden banner near the top. As you come to, things don't quite seem so humdrum as they used to be... 

tube_z5
     Title: Tube Trouble
     Author: Richard Tucker
     You have been trapped in the underground system for what may be days or even weeks - and you are desperately hungry. The chocolate machine is playing up, and there's never a train when you want one.

under_z5
     Title: The Underoos that Ate New York
     Author: G. Kevin Wilson
     Looks like that meteor crash from page 12 wasn't as harmless as everyone was expecting: now your clothes are playing mad!

vindaloo_z5
     Title: Vindaloo
     Author: Adam G. Crutchlow
     You wake up, just in the right mood for a chicken vindaloo. You'll have to find the ingredients and make it yourself, though. Not recommended for vegetarians or animal lovers :) 

vision_z5
     Title: Lack of Vision
     Author: Ryan Stevens
     Written as a "TextWater" game (as an answer to the "TextFire" April's Fool Hoax), you are in a dark place without knowing why (or what to do). 

visitor_z5
     Title: The Visitor
     Auhtor: Peter Polkinghorne

VOODOO_Z5

wadewar3_z5
     Title: The WadeWars Book III: Askin
     Author: Jim Fisher
     
WAXWORKS_Z5

wcastle_z5
     Title: The Wizard's Castle
     Author: Joseph R. Power

weather_z5
     Title: A Change in the Weather
     Author: Andrew Plotkin
     "Walking away from a picnic, you are suddenly caught in a country storm. You must protect a bridge from being destroyed. An ultra-linear game."

wedding_z5
     Title: The Wedding
     Author: Neil James Brown
     What should have been a simple task, watching your old flatmate Malcolm get married, becomes an awful lot more complicated when it transpires that Malcolm has disappeared mere hours before the service. You are called in by one of the bride's aunts to sort out the problem. But how can you help? Perhaps the answer to the problem lies somewhere within D'Arcy manor, the bride's family home. The odd characters within may be able to help you. First things first, though - how do you get past the nasty security guard? 

what_if_z5
     Title: What-IF?
     Author: David Ledgard
     "Have you ever wondered what might have happened if a key leader had lived or died, a key decision been made differently...? Such arguments were a popular pastime BC [before computers] when there was less to occupy thinking peoples' free time. Here are a few ideas to get you thinking some more. To the best of my knowledge everything is historically accurate. All arguments are based on reasonable premises."

winter_z5
     Title: Winter Wonderland
     Author: Laura Knauth
     "Young Gretchen could have only imagined the fanciful events that were to occur before finding herself lost in a winter wonderland."

withdraw_z5
     Title: Withdrawal Symptoms
     Author: Niclas Carlsson
     "You have the keys to the deposit box safely in your hand as you approach the bank. Finally you are about to find out exactly what you inherited from your old aunt. Nothing can go wrong now. At least that is what you think."

wossname_z5
     Title: Spodgeville Murphy and the Jewelled Eye of Wossname
     Author: David Fillmore

wumpus_z5
     Title: Hunt the Wumpus
     Author: Gregory Yob, Magnus Olsson, and David Ahl

yagwad_z5
     Title: Yes, Another Game with a Dragon!
     Author: John Kean

zazie_z5
     Title: Zazie
     Author: Luca Melchionna
     "Zazie", an interactive reading, is a divertissement based on the novel "Zazie dans le mètro" by Raymond Queneau. The novel itself is a paradox: the said Zazie, a young, outspoken, rather wild girl of fifteen wants to go into the Paris metro for a ride, but she can't: there's a strike going on. In my little tour-de-force she already *is* inside the metro, and the difficult thing is to get out, mainly because of evil elderly perverts, but not only. 

zball_z5
     Title: ZassBall
     Author: L. Ross Raszewski
     A port of an age-old Commodore 64 game in which you have to build walls though a playfield without being hit by a target in the process. Mail the author with comments to receive a cheat code.

zbefunge_z5
     Title: ZBefunge
     Author: Francis Irving
     A Z-Machine interpreter for the two-dimensional programming language Befunge, complete with sample programs. 

zcamel_z5
     Title: Camel
     Author: Heath Users Group

zdungeon_z5
     Title: Zork
     Author: Tim Anderson, Marc Blank, Bruce Daniels, and Dave Lebling

zenspeak_z5
     Title: Zen Speaks!
     Author: Aldo Cumani
     A demo program that (using an intrepreter that supports sound) adds 1. annoying background "music" using standard sound effects, 2. rudimentary text-to-speech (producing a horrible robot-like voice), 3. a very primitive Eliza-style response system. Talk to Zen, the computer from the Museum of Inform.

z-life_z5

Zokoban_z5
     Title: Zokoban
     Author: Jake Wildstrom
     Another Z-Abuse, this one an implementation of the puzzle game Sokoban. Maneuver blocks into place through a variety of complicated layouts--six levels in all. This one doesn't really lose anything in the translation to the ASCII-art medium, so it's a prime candidate for Z-Abusing.

zombies_z5
     Title: Zombies
     Author:  ANONYMOUS
     Another Z-Abuse, extremely similar to Robots--the goal is to get the ASCII characters that are chasing you (here they're Zs) to bump into other ASCII characters (Os) because Os kill Zs, it seems. Apparently, this is a port of an old BASIC game.

ZORK1_z5
zork1inv_z5
     Title: Zork I
     Author: Marc Blank and Dave Lebling
     Many strange tales have been told of the fabulous treasure, exotic creatures, and diabolical puzzles in the Great Underground Empire. As an aspiring adventurer, you will undoubtedly want to locate these treasures and deposit them in your trophy case.

ZORK2_z5
zork2inv_z5
     Title: Zork II
     Author: Dave Lebling and Marc Blank
     As you explore the subterranean realm of Zork, you'll continually be confronted with new surprises. Chief among these is the Wizard himself, who'll constantly endeavor to confound you with his capricious powers. But more than that, you'll face a challenge the likes of which you've never experienced before. 

ZORK3_z5
zork3inv_z5
     Title: Zork III
     Author: Dave Lebling and Marc Blank
     Zork III: The Dungeon Master draws you into the deepest and most mysterious reaches of the Great Underground Empire. Nothing is as it seems. And the one responsible for the shadow and darkness - the Dungeon Master - embodies the greatest mystery of all. 

ztrek_z5
     Title: Super Z Trek
     Author:  John Menichelli, Chris Nystrom, David Ahl, Mike Mayfield, and Bob Leedom
     Another Z-Abuse, this one of the game Super Star Trek--originally written by Mike Mayfield in BASIC and published by Dave Ahl in his book of BASIC programs, with contributions from Bob Leedom. Chris Nystrom ported it to C, and John Menichelli did this port. Basically, you pilot the Enterprise around killing Klingons and refueling; it certainly doesn't lose anything in the Z-machine medium, though it's not inherently thrilling.

ZTUU_Z5
ztuuinv_z5

zugzwang_z5
     Title: Zugzwang
     Author: Magnus Olsson
     Out of the TextFire "12-pack", this is an April's Fool game "demo" in which you get to play a pawn in a chess game - at the very end. Incorporates a very nifty variation on the status line to show the positions of the chess pieces after each move. 


